[rock music]
male narrator:
The angels are on the hunt
for America's
best tattoo artists.
- Hello, New Orleans!
[cheers and applause]
narrator:
And spreading their wings
to do some
good along the way.
- Every month in Louisiana,
hundreds of children
enter foster care.
- I grew up in the foster care
system,
separated from
my brothers and sisters.
narrator: Tonight,
three local artists...
- You're my competition?
- Loser number one right here.
narrator: Will compete for the
chance to call out an Angel.
- That tattoo is
not gonna hold up.
- You're going home!
narrator: And taking
an Angel down will earn
them a guaranteed spot
on "Ink Master."
[rock music]
♪ ♪
- Well, they definitely know
how to party
here in New Orleans.
Let's see if they
know how to tattoo.
- Just as an estimate,
how many of them do
you think are vampires?
- Hey, Tracy.
- Hey.
- How's it going?
- Welcome to Wicked 13 tattoos.
They call me "Tattoo" Tracy.
I've been tattooing 22 years.
I'm known for full-color
Japanese tattoos,
but I've won a lot
of different awards
around the country,
as far as color
portrait,
and comic book characters
and cartoon characters.
I've been around longer
than tattooing's been
legal in a lot of states.
- What got you into
tattooing specifically?
- I was in the military getting
tattooed and drawing tattoos,
and my wife was like,
"Why don't you start
doing the tattoos?", and I did.
I came home from Germany and
started tattooing stateside.
I was basically an alcoholic
for about 17 years.
The last 5 years,
I've been sober.
- Congratulations.
- So I really feel like
I got about five years of real
tattooing in where I was
really doing the right thing.
- Well, it's obviously
working out for you.
This shop is beautiful.
- Thank you.
Thank you.
- There's probably a buttload
of amazing artists
here in New Orleans.
We've picked out two others to
compete against you, and they
should be here any minute now.
[rock music]
- My name is Tai.
They call me "The Viper,"
and I've been
tattooing for 13 years.
I am known for realism
tattoos--very intricate
pieces of work.
I'm extremely competitive.
I want to beat everybody.
You're my competition?
- Loser number one right here.
- Yeah? I've never lost before.
- I'm ready. I don't
know what you're bringing.
- I'm born ready.
I got you beat.
- Tai Viper--living
up to your name already.
- Always.
- So why don't you
tell us a little bit
about yourself?
- I'm an artist-
a perfectionist.
I live and breathe art, so
I'm great at everything I do.
- Well, [bleep].
- We'll see how it goes today.
We have one more competitor.
They'll be here any minute.
[rock music]
- I'm Mecca.
I've been tattooing
for six years.
I'm known for my
watercolor tattoos.
I'm good at making tattoos that
don't necessarily look
like every other tattoo.
I'm an art nut at heart,
and my tattoos are my art,
and I want people to see that.
- Oh!
- Oh, and here she is.
Hey, Mecca.
- Hi. How's it going?
- Welcome.
Tell us about yourself.
- I immigrated to this
country from Georgetown,
Guyana, when I was about three.
I went to school
for illustration and animation.
- Sounds fancy.
- I am fancy.
Thank you, boo.
- All right.
- I came to New Orleans
shortly after Katrina
doing volunteer work.
Then I kind of stumbled into
tattooing and found
that I loved it.
- That's amazing.
Well, obviously we have three
very different personalities.
It's gonna be a hell
of a competition today.
- Let's go.
- You guys want
to know how it's gonna go down?
- Definitely.
- There are going
to be two elimination tattoos,
and one of you will
be eliminated each round.
- You ready to go?
- I'm not going anywhere.
- Whoever wins the final
elimination tattoo is gonna
face off against
one of us Angels
in a head-to-head competition.
- Wow.
- If you can beat one of us,
then you get a spot
on "Ink Master" season ten.
- Oh!
- Nice.
- Really?
- That's what
I'm talking about.
- Are you guys ready for your
first elimination tattoo?
- Yeah.
- Yeah. Let's go.
- All right.
You guys are going to have
two hours
to do this tattoo--any style,
any subject matter.
However,
you must tattoo the knee ditch.
- Ooh.
- What?
- Just around the corner from
the kneecap is the knee ditch,
and there's not a tattooer
that doesn't cringe when they
hear the words "knee ditch."
- This is true.
- We're gonna be
judging on style, shading,
outline, application.
- One of you will
be eliminated today.
- You guys have two hours
to show us the voodoo that
you do so well,
so please do not disappoint us.
- That's enough time.
- Are you guys used to working
under a time constraint?
- I time myself every tattoo.
- You are psychotic.
- Very.
- Go get set up.
We'll bring in your canvases.
- Ready to lose, losers?
♪ ♪
- First L in your own shop.
- I can't see it
happening in my house.
- You need to fix your glasses,
then.
- Don't you get tired
of talking so much [bleep]?
- I can't hear
you from down there.
- Bless your heart.
♪ ♪
- Okay, you guys have two
hours to tattoo any style,
any subject, in the knee ditch.
And your time starts now.
- Let's go.
- Let's do it, man.
- The knee ditch sucks.
Not only are knee ditches
terribly painful, but the skin
there is so thin that it's
really easy to blow out a line.
- Ready?
- I really want to make sure
that they have smart, clean
line work in these tattoos,
because that's
what's gonna hold up.
♪ ♪
- Man, you're doing an owl
portrait in two hours?
- Oh, yeah.
- Are you fast?
- Very fast.
I picked a black
and gray portrait
because there's no lines.
So if this guy moves,
the lines will
not show the flaws.
Kinda moving into
the ditch a little bit there.
A two-hour animal
portrait is crazy.
I'm definitely trying to
showcase what I can do.
♪ ♪
- You're gonna do
awesome as always, Dad.
- I'm gonna represent, and I'm
gonna show them what we can do.
- Those other tattoo artists
don't know
what's gonna hit them.
- Yeah!
[laughter]
My family is one
of the pillars of my life.
In the last five years, my
tattooing's completely changed.
I'm sober, I think clear.
I'm ready to go
to that next level.
Sobriety definitely changed
my life, that's for sure.
- It shows in your art.
It shows in fatherhood,
husband, everything.
I'm very proud of you.
- I'll take any
advice you want to give me.
- Move faster.
- [laughs] Okay.
♪ ♪
- How you feeling up there,
man?
- Well, it doesn't tickle.
- Oh, we're going
color over here, huh?
- Yep. A little splatter.
- Making it violent, right?
- Extremely.
I'm going to beat
them today with a rose.
This will show that I
can do anything in any area.
Ooh!
Knee ditch.
So what?
It's a [bleep] tattoo.
♪ ♪
- How often are you
scared about anything?
- I'm never afraid of things,
man. I like challenges a lot.
People say I'm extremely cocky.
Well, I'm a great artist,
I'm good-looking, I'm fit.
If I'm great, I'm great.
If you don't like me,
[bleep] you too.
You know I hate to lose,
'cause I don't lose.
- Yeah, I don't see you losing.
- [laughs]
I don't see it either, bro.
I conquer everything.
- Cocky mother[bleep].
- Cocky mother[bleep], huh?
- Man, he's just taking it.
- Yeah.
- Is he alive?
- Are you alive?
Sick.
♪ ♪
- You know,
for a watercolor artist,
those lines are pretty crispy.
- Even if you're
doing a watercolor tattoo,
clean lines are important.
- Thank you.
- Girl, it's all
about the fundamentals.
- I really want to show
the Angels that even though
it's a watercolor tattoo,
it still has
the foundations
of any good tattoo.
My lines are crisp,
my color is solid and bold.
That's what I'm going for.
♪ ♪
- Everything's
really good at the shop.
We've been staying, like,
super busy lately.
I just opened a tattoo
parlor with my best friend,
which is terrifying.
So I got approached recently.
I'll be going
into this competition.
Doing something like this is
stepping way
outside of my comfort zone.
- You graduated with honors,
like,
from designs and graphics.
You're the most creative
person I've ever known.
If anybody's gonna win this
competition,
it's going to be you.
- I think it'll be a really
good opportunity
for me to prove myself.
- You guys
have 30 minutes left.
You are down to 30 minutes.
[rock music]
♪ ♪
- Those are really complicated,
detailed tattoos
for two hours, man.
If any of these artists
finish these to the caliber
they say they're going to be,
these guys are gonna
blow this out of the water.
- Yep.
- I'm excited.
♪ ♪
- Five, four, three, two, one.
That's it.
Stop tattooing!
- All right. Well done.
- It's beautiful, man.
- I would have never put
eyes on the back of a knee.
When it bends,
it's gonna be completely
warped and messed up.
- Think we got a winner?
- Guaranteed, man.
- Dated.
Skin rips of 1990 [bleep].
- Hey.
- We still doing that now?
It's all right.
You can be retro.
Not to mention he
had some crazy blowouts.
Tai should be
worried about going home.
- Give me some.
- Glad you like it.
- These artists started
off really strong today.
I thought they were all gonna
hit home runs,
but I'm disappointed.
- Both Tracy and Tai
were lacking line work.
That's why I'm so instantly
drawn to Mecca's,
because the line work.
- One thing that I really loved
about Mecca's
tattoo was the teeth.
- Clearly somebody didn't
floss. I think that's rad.
- She showed some
serious fundamentals.
But that being said,
she did not color
all the way up to the lines.
That color is not
saturated properly.
- I have to say,
the red in Tai's
tattoo is not solid either.
- But there were some
great moments that happened
in Tai's tattoo.
- I love those paint drips.
- Yes.
- I can appreciate
that Tai got creative.
Because Tracy basically
rendered a photograph.
- If Tracy pulled off that
portrait in two hours and it
was as good as the photo
or better, I would love that.
But the beak wasn't outlined,
the eyes were messed up.
- They all had
so much potential.
- You have no black lines.
That tattoo
is not gonna hold up.
It's gonna fall right out.
- But I put lines.
They were color lines.
- I think your tattoo
would have looked
a lot better--
- All right.
- I don't [bleep] care.
I don't care.
You're going home!
- Hey, you guys.
You want to keep fighting
or you want to find out
who won?
There's a lot on the line,
and not everybody has what it
takes to be on "Ink
Master," so we have to make
tough decisions to find out
which one of you is the best.
- After extensive deliberation,
the three of us have decided
that the winner of the today's
elimination tattoo is...
♪ ♪
Mecca.
- Awesome.
- You showed us artistry,
beautiful color choices.
Your line work was
executed beautifully.
If all of the color were
to fall out of that tattoo,
those lines would be in there,
because they are solid.
- Thank you.
- Which means that Tracy,
Tai, one of you is out.
Tracy, because you went in and
rendered every single feather,
it's difficult to read.
When I get up close to it,
I start seeing a lot
of inconsistencies around
the eyes, around the beak.
- Okay.
- Tai, we need to
see line work.
- I had lines--colored lines.
- Five,
ten years down the line,
all of those beautiful reds are
going to mesh into this
muddied sort of image that
would be more clear if
you added those black lines.
- The decision was unanimous,
and the person
eliminated today is...
♪ ♪
[rock music]
- We have decided that...
Tracy,
you are eliminated.
- There was not
enough of light on dark.
It seemed to be cluttered
with a lot of the same texture.
It becomes flat
when we see that.
- I am disappointed. It does
suck to lose in your own house.
But, you know,
you can't win them all.
Learn from it and grow from it.
- Tracy,
we're not done with you yet.
We still need your help.
We would love it if you would
join us at the Angel
face-off and help us judge.
- Definitely. I don't know if
they're down for me judging.
- [laughs] Yeah.
- Thank you so much, Tracy.
You can head out.
- Good luck.
- All right, bro.
- And good luck.
- Bye, Tracy.
- Thank you.
- Well,
your day is not over yet.
You guys ready for your
second elimination tattoo?
- Bring it on.
- This will be
a four-hour tattoo.
- You can't talk
about New Orleans
without talking
about Mardi Gras.
- Of course.
- Mardi Gras masks
have been
a part of the celebration since
the 1700s, so it should come as
no surprise that you guys will
be tattooing Mardi Gras masks.
♪ ♪
- All right, then.
- Mecca, since you won
the first elimination tattoo,
you now have the power
to choose one element that must
be included in both
of the Mardi Gras masks.
- That's great.
That's awesome.
- [sighs]
- Which item do you want
to include in your
Mardi Gras masks?
- Um--the item I want
to include is butterflies.
- Creative.
- We don't just
want to see a mask
and a butterfly.
Make sure that you
have creative decisions
to incorporate
the butterflies into the mask.
- Remember,
whoever wins will move on
to face off against an Angel.
A lot is on the line.
Good luck.
We'll see you tomorrow.
[rock music]
- You got lucky.
- Well, I still won.
♪ ♪
[rock music]
- Whoa!
- Oh, man.
- We are definitely
in New Orleans.
♪ ♪
Welcome, guys.
- Hi.
- Are we ready
to bring it today?
- Yeah. Sure am.
I'm ready to win.
- You gonna lose.
- Tai, did you bring
your liner today?
- Yep. I'm ready to fight.
- The pressure is on.
One of you is going
to be eliminated today.
One of you is going to get
to face off
against one of us Angels.
If you can beat one of us,
then you are guaranteed a spot
on "Ink Master."
- Consider yourselves beaten.
- He talks a big game,
but we'll see.
- Today, you'll have four hours
to tattoo your
Mardi Gras masks.
We want to see
that you guys are hungry.
Don't make this
easy for us or each other.
- I can't wait to win.
- You guys go get set up, and
we'll bring in your canvases.
- All right.
♪ ♪
- So you ready to lose, Tai?
- I hope
all of your equipment works.
- If that's your trash talk,
then you need to step that game
up too, dude.
- [laughs] Cute.
- Okay,
you guys have four hours to
tattoo Mardi Gras masks.
And your time starts now.
[rock music]
- The Mardi Gras mask is
probably the most recognizable
symbol of New Orleans.
We're looking for detail
and lace and beading and all
of these intricate elements.
These artists have to show us
creativity and crisp,
clean tattoos.
♪ ♪
- Ooh.
- It's different.
- Clever.
- Didn't just slap
a butterfly on a mask.
- Nope.
- There's a lot of
good ideas
in here, man.
- You're tattooing
like you want to win.
- I'm gonna win.
My tattoo has realism,
black and gray work.
It has full color pieces
within it.
This is a very ballsy move.
- My tattoo's a little surreal.
It's like this
woman/mask/butterfly/feather
combination,
so you don't really know
where one element stops
and the other element begins.
This is an ambitious tattoo.
- So do you have your
colors all pre-planned,
or are you kind of just
winging it as you go along?
- I have them planned.
- Is this green
part of the background,
or is it taking
the shape of a face?
- It's kind
of a little bit of both.
It would suggest a face,
but also continue upwards.
[rock music]
♪ ♪
- You have two hours left!
- Mecca's design--
- [sighs]
- I don't get it.
- That big, blobby,
painty area
of blue and green--what is it?
- The reason that
Mecca won yesterday was because
her line work was impeccable.
Today, her line work is really
messy, and the design itself
is so confusing, not even she
knows what's going on in it.
On the other hand,
Tai took our critiques,
and he's putting some really
nice line work in that tattoo.
- But he's trying to render
a face on top
of a Mardi Gras mask.
Those are really
difficult things to do.
- Both of these artists have
time to mess it
up or not finish.
- We'll see what
they do in the end.
♪ ♪
[rock music]
- Five, four, three, two, one.
That's it.
Stop tattooing!
- Let's let you
take a look at it.
Here you go.
What do you think?
- I love it.
- Awesome.
- That's so good.
I love it.
- So what'd you make?
- A masterpiece.
- That face is totally off.
My tattoo is ten times better.
- Let's see. Let's see.
Let's see. Let's see.
- I think it's
definitely gonna win.
- Do you practice
that laugh in the mirror?
- No. No. No.
[laughs]
No, I'm just
laughing at the bull[bleep]
- Oh, my God.
♪ ♪
- Tai Viper, let's
have a look at your tattoo.
- Yes, ma'am.
- Tell us a little bit about
your plan going
into this tattoo.
- I just didn't
want to do a mask.
I wanted different
things to express Mardi Gras.
- I absolutely,
right out the gate,
applaud you for your creativity
and for your balls, really.
I think you really
thought outside of the box.
- Yeah.
I love how clean that sign is.
The black on skin is really,
really bold.
But I'm kind of confused
about the mouth area.
Is that bottom highlight teeth,
or is it shine on her lips?
- Shine.
- I didn't know
that wasn't
teeth until you just said that.
- Yeah.
- It looks like
she's going like this.
- There isn't enough
of a separation of the darkness
inside of the mouth meeting
the dark lips, and the shading
right around the creases of her
mouth looks harsh, and this is
something a woman never wants
to have in the first place.
If you lightened her face up
a little bit, it would
make the face look more soft.
But in general,
you really brought it.
Let's see if Mecca did too.
- She didn't.
- So what was your
plan going into this tattoo?
- In my mind, I kind of wanted
everything to flow ambiguously,
so, like, it's not necessarily
clear if it's a face
or if it's the background.
- That's not a good move.
- Ooh.
- Okay.
- The big splotch of green
and black is not necessarily
reading like a background.
It's looking almost
like a greenish ghoul.
- Gotcha.
- As a greenish ghoul,
I kind of take offense to that.
We can be cool too.
- Well, also, I'm looking
at the lines in the mask,
and I'm struggling
to find a crisp and clean one.
- What happened
to that line work?
- Shh!
- I do have
to agree with Nikki.
They're not
your cleanest lines,
but I like the background.
I like the design.
I like the diamond
shape that it has to it.
I think it sits
on her arm really nice.
I really love the feathers.
My big problem
with it: it's dark.
But that mauve,
purple background does help
bring the wing out,
and I really like this tattoo.
- We have some opposite
feelings about this tattoo.
We got to talk this out, guys.
Let's go do it.
Thanks.
♪ ♪
- Oh, so how do you guys feel?
I couldn't ascertain.
- Come on, Kelly. That
tattoo had some major issues.
- So did Tai's.
When you get up onto the beads,
none of them are lined
properly, and it looks like
they're coming out
of a butterfly's butt.
I don't think that's
where beads come from.
- At least I could
tell what Tai's design was.
He used contrast.
Mecca's tattoo was dark
and muddy, and none of that
color was saturated properly.
- When I step back
from Mecca's, I'm like,
"Yep, that's a mask."
- I don't see that at all!
- You can see the mask.
You can't see the wing...
- I see a whole lot of stuff.
- But you can see the mask.
- I'm not saying that's great,
but I'm saying she
does have that over Tai.
Tai lacks
the contrast on the mask.
- I think it should
go to the person with more
great moments than bad.
- And for me, that's easy.
- I mopped the floor with you.
- You didn't
wipe the floor with me.
Your tattoo wasn't perfect.
Maybe mine had some
technical issues, but--
- Some?
- If you look at your tattoo,
like, the shading
is all over the place.
Like, you have
a butterfly pooping beads.
Like, what is going on there?
- All right.
- You both gave us
two completely
different tattoos,
and it made it very difficult
to come to a decision.
- I did two butterflies,
and she did a dead one.
Color was better,
line work was better.
She was frazzled.
- I don't think you
tried to be that creative,
and I think I tried to at
least think outside the box.
- Ultimately,
one of you is going to win,
and the other is
going to be eliminated.
- We have decided
that the winner of today's
elimination tattoo is...
♪ ♪
[rock music]
- We have decided
that the winner of today's
elimination tattoo is...
♪ ♪
- Tai.
- [laughs] I told you.
- Tai, ultimately,
we were really impressed by
the creativity that you showed
by putting the piece inside
of a butterfly.
Congratulations.
- Thank you.
- Which unfortunately means,
Mecca, you are eliminated.
Your tattoo seemed very dark
and very monotone, and we
know what you're capable of.
It's just today
was not your day.
- I know I didn't do my best
tattoo, and I'm a little upset
with myself for not bringing
it the way I know I could.
But I really put myself
out there,
and for that,
I'm proud of myself.
- Mecca, we're still
going to need your help.
We would love if you would come
to the Angel face-off
and help us judge.
- Of course.
- Yeah?
- Definitely.
- Tai, that means you
have a big decision to make.
You have to think about which
one of us Angels you
want to go up against.
- I told you it would be me,
and here I am.
- Well, think about it,
because season ten
of "Ink Master" is on the line.
- We'll see you tomorrow.
- Congratulations.
You better
put your money
where your mouth is.
- You'll see me on season ten.
[rock music]
♪ ♪
- Look at this place.
- This is awesome.
I want today
to be absolutely insane.
And I can think
of no better person to make
anything insane than Tai Viper.
♪ ♪
- Hey, guys.
- Hi.
- We're there now.
- How are we feeling today?
- I told you I would be here,
right?
- Dude, you barely beat me.
- Tai, you have a big decision
to make, because if you can
beat one of us, you will win
a spot on "Ink Master,"
so a lot is on the line.
Which Angel do you
want to face off against?
- I came here
to compete against the best.
All of you are great, but the
Angel that I choose...
Nikki.
- Oh! Yeah, baby.
All right.
I'm not afraid of a fight,
and I'm not afraid of anybody/
So bring your best.
- That's why I chose you.
You're a predator like me.
- Hell yeah.
- There's no one
fiercer than Nikki,
so watch out.
- You ready for this?
- I was born ready.
- All right,
so here is how the winner
of this face-off is going to be
determined: local artists,
the two of you collectively
will cast one vote.
The two Angels
that are not tattooing
collectively
cast one vote.
But what you guys don't
know is we have a huge crowd
coming in today,
and everybody collectively
gets to cast one vote.
- Oh, wow.
- Wow.
- There's another reason that
we needed to find
the best in New Orleans.
Every month in Louisiana,
hundreds of children
enter foster care.
Your canvases today
have had their lives changed
for the better by
the foster care system.
- That's awesome.
- Let's bring them out.
- Welcome, ladies.
Why don't you tell us
a little bit about yourselves?
- Hi. My name is Jennifer.
I grew up in the foster
care system, often separated
from my brothers and sisters.
I eventually got
adopted by a happy family.
I am now a foster parent,
and we hope
to foster to adopt one day.
- That's awesome.
- Hi.
I'm Elizabeth.
A few years ago,
I became aware of the
overwhelming need for foster
parents in our community,
so my husband and I got
certified to foster ourselves,
and now we have a beautiful
three-year-old
little girl in our home.
- That's wonderful.
- Thank you both
so much for being here.
both: Thank you.
- All right, Tai.
Since New Orleans is your city,
you get the first
pick of an Angel skull.
The name on the bottom
of the skull
will be
your canvas for today.
Choose wisely.
- Jennifer.
- So that means Elizabeth,
you're with me.
- All right.
- You got to make this great,
Nikki.
- Psh. You know I will.
- [laughs]
- Good luck to you both.
- Hi, Elizabeth.
- Hi.
- Madam.
- Hello.
♪ ♪
- I grew up with a single
mom of five kids.
- Okay.
- And she was a teenager,
so she didn't have to take
care of her kids.
We dealt with neglect.
She would leave all
five of us by ourselves.
We didn't know how to survive.
- I have a daughter of my own.
I couldn't possibly separate
from her. I couldn't do it.
- I met my
foster mom at church.
She found out I was
up for adoption after my
mom dropped her rights,
so she talked to her husband,
and they adopted me,
and my sister too.
She wanted us to feel loved,
but it took time and effort
to be part of their life.
- What led you
to wanting to be a foster mom?
- My parents, you know,
gave us everything that
my mom couldn't give me,
so that was inspiring for me
to want to love someone else.
I feel like I could relate
to the foster kids.
Tell them,
"You've been through abuse.
I've been through abuse too,
but sometimes you can
overcome it,
sometimes you don't."
- I have to make this
extremely special for you.
What are you
looking to have done?
- A tree.
- A tree?
- Yeah, a tree.
- Okay, okay, okay.
- I grew, and I started new,
so--and growing still.
- I want to give her
a amazing piece of work.
Trees are the representation
of new life--a different cycle.
I have to make
this extremely intricate.
- So a few years ago,
I went to Haiti.
- Wow.
- To see the orphan crisis that
is still so real there--started
that awareness of huge need.
I came back from
that trip just wrecked.
I needed to do something.
And over the years,
we encountered some friends
that were fostering locally,
so the need right here was so,
so great, so we reached out
to a local organization to get
certified to become
foster parents ourselves.
We have a little
one with us right now.
She came to us when she was
two, and now she's three
and thriving,
and it does look like
she's moving towards adoption,
so we're excited about that.
- That's wonderful.
- We're not a perfect family,
we're not perfect parents--
you know,
we never will be--but
we have the space in our home,
and we have the love to give,
and that's what it's all about.
- I would love to make sure
that your tattoo expresses
how much hope you give
these children and how it can
be such a blessing
to you and your family.
- I would love that.
- Something that shows how this
is being a light
in the darkness.
- Mm-hmm.
- How's this?
- Wow. That's unbelievable.
- I see this tree as you,
and she's actually
cradling the young child.
- It's awesome.
Yes!
- You ready to see?
- I am.
- All right.
- Oh, wow.
That's beautiful.
- The lanterns are so
particular here, and what
better thing to be that light
in the darkness than a lantern?
- That's perfect symbolism.
I love it.
- Yes!
♪ ♪
[rock music]
- Hello, New Orleans!
[cheers and applause]
Thank you guys
so much for coming out.
We have two amazing
artists ready to do some
great tattoos for you guys.
[cheers and applause]
- On this side, we have
New Orleans' own Tai Viper!
[cheers and applause]
- [howls]
- And on this side,
from "Ink Master" season eight,
our very own Nikki Simpson!
[cheers and applause]
At the end of this tattoo,
we're going to need all of your
help to determine
the winner of this face-off.
Each of you guys gets to vote
on which tattoo
you think is best.
You guys down to help us?
[cheers and applause]
- All right.
Tai, are you ready?
- Born ready, baby.
[cheers and applause]
- Nikki, are you ready?
- Hell yeah, I'm ready.
- All right, you guys
have six hours to tattoo.
And your time starts now.
[cheers and applause]
♪ ♪
- We in business, Mama.
- Looking good.
- I'm attempting
to do portraits again.
Am I nervous? No.
Do I think
I'm going to lose? No.
Breathe in and breathe out.
I have wanted to compete
for the title of Ink Master
since season one.
It's about the title
and bragging rights,
and I'm a cocky mother[bleep].
- So do you know what the other
person's drawing, or no?
- Yep. I saw it, and it's
not as creative as ours is.
- This is very creative.
- I had to make
it special for you.
We ain't worried about her.
- Are you ready?
- I guess so.
I have no doubt
that I'm gonna crush Tai.
This is my style.
All I have to do is do
my tattoos the way I would
any other day,
and I'm gonna kill it.
- I'm pretty surprised
at Tai calling out Nikki.
I think it's
a really ballsy move.
- Yeah. Definitely.
His design--
there's a lot
of elements going on.
It can get muddied up
if he doesn't set
the contrast just right.
- He's got to make sure he
doesn't get lost
in all those little details.
- True.
- But Nikki's piece--
it's a beautiful design,
but if all
those lines aren't, like,
perfectly crisp and straight--
- There's no hiding a mistake.
- Nikki's super talented,
but that might put
her in some trouble.
- You are down to four hours.
You have four hours left!
- So, where did you
get your Viper name from?
- Clients were, like,
"You're, like,
the nicest asshole,"
and I'm like,
"Just like a snake." Pick
them up, pet them, hold them.
Stop dealing with them,
bite the [bleep] out you.
- [laughs]
- I feel like we're seeing
Tai's strongest tattoo by far.
- I absolutely agree.
That design is really cool.
The tree bark
texture is a serious trick.
The one thing that Nikki has on
Tai is immediate readability.
It looks like it was
printed out by a computer.
- But the tricky thing
is she has a lot of very tiny,
intricate things
that she has to get done.
- Nikki has to render a big
tattoo in black and gray and
and then saturate
the entire inside
of the lantern with color.
- This is the first time that
I have ever felt concerned
about Nikki finishing on time.
- Hopefully she pulls it off
and doesn't freak
out at the last minute.
♪ ♪
- This is it.
This is the final hour.
You have one hour left.
♪ ♪
- I like how Nikki's tattoo,
she's drawing it out great,
she's shading it amazing.
- Nikki, it's just, like, blah.
Tai is doing a tree tattoo,
so it's full of growth.
It's full of life.
- Oh, it's a tree!
- Oh, don't do that.
- I still couldn't
figure out what it was.
- I mean, a lantern
compared to a tree baby?
I don't know.
A lantern in New Orleans is way
more common
than what he's creating.
- Nikki tattoo is boring. Low.
- No, it is not.
- It's no excitement.
♪ ♪
- They ain't gonna beat us.
They can't.
I have this in the bag, because
I'm tattooing two people.
She's tattooing a lantern.
If I lose, everyone is stupid.
- Five, four, three, two, one.
That's it. Stop tattooing!
[cheers and applause]
- All right.
We are done.
- It's amazing.
- It's good?
- It's good.
- You sure it's good?
- Very good.
- You made it.
[howls]
[cheers and applause]
- All right, guys.
It's the moment
that we've all
been waiting for.
Voting is officially opened.
Let's take
a look at these tattoos.
♪ ♪
- Wow. It's beautiful.
- Thank you.
- It's kind of like
being a light in the darkness.
- It's so strong.
- Thank you.
- It looks awesome.
I'm voting for Tai over Nikki,
and it's not just because
we both have fangs.
- I feel the emotion off of it.
- Thank you.
- It's a great tattoo.
- I like the way that he laid
in the colors,
and a lot
of detail went into his work.
- I think Nikki tattoo
is better for the reasons:
definition,
detail, and dimension.
- Nice work. Like, the detail
on them tassels.
- Thank you.
- It kinda brings it out.
- She's like
the female Picasso.
- Yeah. Thank you.
- Got my vote.
No problem.
- I love it. It's
a great way to tell your story.
- Thank you.
- May the best
predator win, huh?
- [hisses, laughs]
- That was two great
tattoos that were just done.
- I like how Tai really thought
outside the box and came up
with a really creative,
meaningful design.
- Something he drew right out
of his mind.
Something
that hasn't been overly done.
- Definitely not.
- Like Nikki's.
- Lanterns are basic, although
Nikki had a gorgeous design.
I love the way
the color just popped on it.
- She had some great lines.
It's readable from,
like, across the room.
- One complaint with Tai--
some places are just kind of
muddy and, like, hard to read.
If it were larger,
then he would have had much
more room to really get
into those little details.
- His featured item,
which is the tree,
is done in black and gray,
but then all the stuff
around it is done in color.
You know, your eyes
are attracted more to leaves
and things instead of the tree.
- Yeah.
We've got to figure this out.
- It's gonna be tough.
♪ ♪
- I just wanted something
to represent her story--
having a light in the darkness.
- It's fun.
- Those are
two amazing tattoos.
- Tai's design
tells an entire story.
- There are so
many tiny, little details.
My favorite part is
the baby's little leafy mohawk.
- He called it a sprout.
- Mm!
- I also really love
the texture of the bark
on the baby's face.
I thought it was a lot softer
and a lot more successful
than the woman's face.
- I feel like what he did
with the woman's face
actually provides a little bit
of contrast, because that
way you understand, like, yes,
this is a grown
lady tree's face,
as opposed
to a little baby tree.
It gives a little bit
of contrast between the two...
- Which is such
a huge difference from
the tattoo
that Nikki did today.
It was full of contrast,
not only with light and dark,
but with the soft black
and gray
and the fully
saturated color.
- If you're going up
against Nikki Simpson,
you have to be prepared
for some beautiful line work,
and once again, she's done it.
- That lantern looks like it's
literally glowing
onto that woman's arm.
- I love having
a hard decision to make.
[cheers and applause]
♪ ♪
- So are you guys
ready to find out who won?
[cheers and applause]
Remember,
if Tai can beat Nikki, he will
secure a spot on "Ink Master"!
[cheers and applause]
It was a split decision.
[murmuring]
- The crowd voted for...
♪ ♪
- Tai Viper.
[cheers and applause]
- And the Angels
voted for...
Nikki Simpson.
[cheers and applause]
- And our local
artists voted for...
♪ ♪
Nikki Simpson.
[cheers and applause]
- That means the winner
of the Angel
face-off is Nikki Simpson.
- Whoo!
[cheers and applause]
- Thank you so much,
New Orleans.
[cheers and applause]
- Great job. You were so fun
to compete with.
Oh, my goodness.
- I went up against another
predator, and I got eaten.
I don't like it,
but she's a amazing artist.
- You were awesome, dude.
That tattoo is the [bleep].
Tai definitely
brought it today,
and I'm so
happy that my tattoo won,
'cause I got to go against
one of the best in New Orleans.
- You put up a good fight.
- Thank you.
This just put
a whole different hunger in me.
Maybe in time,
you'll see me again.
A serpent never sleeps.
- Good job, baby.
[laughter]